Good evening. My name is Brian Hagerty.
I'm the chair of the El Paso Community
College Board of Trustees.
I'd like to welcome everyone here this
evening. Uh
I have to read this about if anyone
would like to join this meeting through
the internet you could go to
www.youtube.com/
user/goepcc.
Uh so could everyone please stand and we
do the pledge of
>> lead
to the flag
>> of the United States of America and to
the republic for which it stands one
nation
indivisible with liberty and justice for
all.
And before we get started, uh, we've got
some bad news this week that we lost one
of our fellow trustees, Miss Gracie
Kinttonia,
who was a great advocate for students
and for this college.
So, if everyone would please join me in
a moment of silence.
Thank you.
Okay. Uh, call the role please. Bill,
>> sir,
>> Mr. Uxer
>> here.
>> Mrs. Robas
>> Miss Naha
>> here.
>> Dr. Graham
>> Mrs. Moy
>> here.
>> Mr. Mendes
>> Mr. Hagerty
>> here.
>> Okay. Approval of minutes.
>> Item 1.4. Approval of minutes. This
includes March 26, 2025 regular board of
trustees meeting minutes, April 30, 2025
regular board of trustees meeting
minutes, and May 28, 2025 regular board
of trustees meeting minutes.
>> Move to approve.
>> Second.
>> Any discussion? Call a question. Bill.
>> Mr. Uxer.
>> I.
>> Mrs. Robas.
>> Miss Naha.
>> I.
>> Dr. Graham. Hi.
>> Mrs. Moy. Hi.
>> Mr. Mendes. Hi.
>> Mr. Hagerty. I
>> item 1.5 welcome to guests and staff
members.
Item 1.6 open forum there is none.
Section 1.7 presentations by individuals
groups and organizations. Item 1.7.1 Dr.
William Sarata College President will
recognize individuals who have retired
from El Paso Community College.
Chair Hagerty and members of the board.
Um, first I'm hopeful that you noticed
our new podium which is Yeah. Beautiful.
Thank you, Miss Fernandez. You and your
team. Great job with that. Uh, these are
always bittersweet moments. um they're
sweet on behalf of the employee and the
recognition of the employees outstanding
achievements and all they've contributed
to the institution and they're bitter
and that we're saying goodbye uh our or
until we meet again. I'm going to start
with Professor Adriana D. Garcia. Miss
Adriana D. Garcia graduated from El Paso
Community College with an associate of
applied science degree in pair
professional for the hearing impaired
program in May 1990. Soon after, in
August 1990, she started working at EPCC
as a sign language interpreter at the
center for students with disabilities
and remained there for 18 years. Working
at the CSD was rewarding for her because
she was able to meet many students who
had more than one disability and they
had major challenges throughout their
academic years. As a CSD staff member,
Miss Garcia was able to apply herself by
learning how to do every task required
by the department. Not only did she
interpret in the classroom, she also
tutored math, English, reading, and
other subjects to the deaf students of
the college. Working at the CSD made her
become humbler and more grounded by
seeing the students potential to succeed
because of their can do attitude.
Because of these students, she was able
to continue her education and set goals
for her future. In 1991, Miss Garcia
received her state level one
certification from the board for
evaluation of interpreters as a sign
language interpreter. In April 2007, she
completed her masters of counseling in
mental health counseling from the
University of Phoenix. As a position as
a sign language in instructor opened in
September 2008 at the college, and she
was hired as a tenure track full-time
instructor for the sign language
program. She's always been an active
participant in the discipline creating
ideas for the students to learn American
Sign Language ASL. She says that her
element is in the classroom and that her
that in that place she is in a different
dimension providing instructional
activities for students. After 35 years
of service, Miss Garcia will be retiring
on the 31st of this month. There were
many reasons for her to decide that it
was time to retire, but the most
important was to take care of her
health. It was a difficult decision, but
she has other goals in mind. One of her
plans is to volunteer for hospice and be
there for deaf people and their
families. She also wants to be there for
the hearing impaired who have no family.
Her passion and the calling gets
stronger as each day passes. Mrs. Garcia
shared that she has been fortunate to
work at EPCC. The college and personnel
have been good to her. She wants to
thank the many people she work she has
worked with who guided her, mentored her
and most most of all believed in her.
She will always be grateful and says
that she is thankful from the bottom of
her of her heart. Thank you for your 35
years of service, Professor Garcia. We
wish you the best in your retirement
journey.
You're in a hurry.
question.
Question
Congratulations.
They're
over here.
Thank you.
Uh, continuing Chair Hagerty, members of
the board, uh, Rebecca Becky Pales. Uh,
since 1978, Miss Pales has been a
librarian at El Paso Community College.
During her long tenure at EPCC, she has
served as a librarian at both the Rio
Grande and Trans Mountain libraries.
While at Rio Grande, she served as head
librarian and was instrumental in the
planning and relocation of the Rio Grand
Library to its present location. For
many years, she was the nursing and
allied health leazison serving 12
different health programs. Her rapport
with students, co-workers, and
campuswide faculty has earned her
respect and a reputation as a person who
provides the necessary help needed to
accomplish any task or assignment. Over
the past four decades, Miss Bareilles
has never slowed down and has readily
volunteered to take on library, campus,
and district-wide committee tasks. She
also volunteered and served for five
years to be the first adviser and mentor
for a newly created student club called
College for Christ, which brought
students together from multiple
campuses. Miss Vales truly embodies what
a librarian should be and will soon step
away from an illustrious 47 years of
service to the college. Having impacted
countless numbers of students, her many
years of classroom instruction and
one-on-one help to students undoubtedly
had a profound positive impact on their
academic success. Her generosity with
her time, her talents, and her
willingness to help and do for others
has directly impacted peers and
co-workers. Miss Pales has been married
to her husband Art for 42 years and they
have two sons, one of whom is a
lieutenant in the New Mexico State
Police Department and one is a tenure
can kinesiology associate professor here
at EPCC. Jeremy Pales, two
daughter-in-laws and two precious
grandsons. Dr. Dr. Smith, vice president
of instruction and education, states, "I
have known Becky for over 35 years, and
she exemplifies what EPCC wants from all
our librarians. She's innovative,
caring, and admired by all who know her.
She will be greatly missed." Miss Bales,
we wish you all the best in your
retirement, and we thank you for your
years of service. If you would join me
at the podium, please.
Thank you.
Does he have an idea?
>> Item 1.7.2.
Optional presentations will be made by
the presidents of the classified staff
association, the professional staff
association, the faculty association,
and the student government association.
>> There
is
good afternoon trustees, Mr. president,
vice presidents, deans, guests in the
room and guests all over the world.
It's that time of year when we turn our
attention to salary enhancements.
Recently, the uh Dallas Cowboy
cheerleaders got a 400% pay increase.
Now,
>> if you dress like them, we can get you
one, too.
>> Are you going to get us a chair?
after you, chairman.
Now, while none of us expect a 400% pay
increase, a rather significant one would
be very nice. After all, aren't the
employees of the college, the classified
staff, professional staff, the
administrators, the faculty, aren't we
vastly more important than cheerleaders?
>> You brought it up.
>> I did. Thank you. Byebye.
All right. Uh good afternoon members of
the board and Dr. uh President William
Sarata. Uh we're coming on behalf of new
student orientation department and as
well student government association and
we are here because if you noticed on
your tables we left you some boxes steal
boxes with shirts and also a formal
invitation to our summer event that is
happening. It's name is Steelbash and
this is the third edition that we're
doing this summer event and this is for
all students just to celebrate the first
week of school. It's going to happen on
Thursday, August 28th at 5:30 p.m. at
the Bayer campus around the Americano
village. We're going to have uh free
games. We're going to have food, live
music, uh rides as well. We're going to
have prizes for the students. So,
everything so they can have a memorable
experience for the first week of school.
And of course, we would like you to be
there just to experience the environment
and the excitement of this event that is
already in its third year and we're
expecting between 800 students to a
thousand. Last year we have over 500
students. So, it's growing uh little by
little and hopefully this year is the
biggest one yet. So, again, you will
find some shirts inside the box, the
invitation and also so you can share
with your family members as well. All
right, so we hope to see you there.
Thank you so much.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you for the shirts.
>> Section 1.8 communications item 1.8.1
8.1 discussion and review regarding
data, statistics, policies, and general
information related to El Paso Community
College by the board of trustees.
>> Chair Hagerty and members of the board,
I'd ask um Dean Tony Badio, our dean of
dual credit early college high school,
uh to approach the podium to be present
to the board um our incredible progress
with our dual credit early college high
school and PEK programs um all under the
direction of Dean Bado and her
colleagues. Dean Bio, please.
>> Thank you, Dr. Sarata. Good afternoon,
Jay Hirely, members of the board. Um, I
love this presentation, by the way. I
don't know if you've noticed, but I love
what I do, and I I want to acknowledge
that I may be the face of dual credit
early college, but this is a team
effort. My fellow leans, uh,
coordinators, there's a number of
committees. So, uh, thank you. Thank you
for allowing me to do this, uh, today.
So, first um a little bit about the
students that we serve, the high school
students that we serve. Uh as you well
know, we serve high school students in
public, private, and public charter
schools. Uh we offer college courses for
dual credit to them. Uh we also have
homeschool students who take dual credit
with us. In fact, I was just looking at
data today and we have a 20% increase
from last year. So, we have more and
more homeschool students coming to
campus. Uh, as you know, we also have
early college high schools and pathways
in technologies early college high
schools or PEKs. Uh, in addition, we
have some early college programs offered
to dual credit students for them to earn
a post-secary credential.
At any point if you have any questions,
please let me know.
I'd like to give you kind of like a
perspective, right? 20 years. Uh so back
in 2004,
a very small percentage, 4% of our
student population was high school
students.
10 years later, right, we already had we
already had early college high schools,
but still dual credit was still a
significant uh portion of our high
school students. Today or last fall, 36%
of our enrollment was high school
students with early college high schools
of course taking over the lead and now
we can see also PEK students.
Uh this last
I have to move because now I have
flowers right in front of me. Uh so this
spring 39.44%
of our stu of our student population was
high school students. Um uh again we're
very quickly right approaching that 40%
mark. Um Dr.
can attest that colleagues across the
state, other community colleges have 50%
uh high school enrollment in in uh some
community colleges.
So again approaching the 40% mark but
something that I wanted to uh point out
is that our students are incredibly
successful. High school students are
very successful. uh they complete their
course completion is 87% compared to 72%
of non- high school students and uh Mr.
Flores tells me that 71%
are um academically
educationally disadvantaged.
Uh and that is uh as he has mentioned in
the budget workshops right our funding
now also um that impacts our our state
funding.
So definitely dual credit uh great
indicator of student success. So some of
the things that we notice right in
looking at the data not only with us uh
here at EPCC but with our partners at
UTEP is that students have higher GPA.
Do students who take college courses in
dual credit? Um their graduation rate at
EPCC the third three-year graduation
rate is twice as high than non- high
school students. And our friends from
UTEP tell us that the four-year
graduation rate is three times higher if
students had taken dual credit in high
school. So again, great uh indicator of
of of student sessions
and of course great savings for the
students and their families. Uh Paso
Community College waves tuition and fees
and our partners provide textbooks and
and materials for them.
uh 62% of our early college and high uh
high school and PEK students have earned
a post-secary uh credential. Uh we're
approaching the 8,000 mark historically
right to date. And even our non early
college and PEK students have earned
post-secary credentials 436 so far. And
we're going to see an increase because
uh my fellow deans have been working
really hard at uh creating more level
one certificates that our partners are
very interested in not necessarily under
early college and Ptech but even for uh
our traditional let's say dual credit
students.
All right. A little bit about what we do
to stay in touch with our partners. Um
if you remember uh Dr.
used to report on the different events
that we had throughout the year. Uh but
I figure maybe just once a year is
enough for you to know all of the things
that we do to to collaborate with our
partners. Um so definitely we have a
number of workshops during faculty
development. We have two specific for
our uh high school partners. Um we have
we host a half a day in June. We call it
the dual credit summer convening and
that is for newly credential dual credit
faculty just to get them ready to
deliver a courses at the high school.
And we also have the dual credit forum
uh typically in the spring again an
opportunity to bring our partners
together.
We also have uh something that we've
been calling the counseling institute.
uh our uh counselors and adviserss and
you see some of them there in that
picture. Uh they uh put together an
agenda and invite all of the high school
counselors for all the high schools in
the region and some high school
administrators and district
administrators join them as well. And
this is an opportunity to uh um give
information to brand new counselors and
also to update some who are more
seasoned. Again, we have this fall and
spring.
Uh this October 24th, we're going to
hold the 12th annual uh building bridges
dual credit conference. Again, we bring
all of our partners for the region, uh
UT, Texas Tech, region 19. Again, we
have multiple uh breakout sessions uh
for this this conference.
And finally, we have uh the early
college high school leadership council.
Uh we have a partnership with eight
school districts for early colleges and
PEX. So we hold um these meetings twice
a year. Uh this one is mostly for
leadership at the district uh the high
schools and of course EPCC.
So we're busy. We're always having
something. There's always something for
everyone.
Uh now let me uh focus on early college
and PEX and uh as you know these schools
are designated by the TEA and they have
to meet certain requirements right they
are evaluated based on uh their access
achievement and attainment outcomebased
measures. Uh when I created this slide
we hadn't heard from TA but we just
heard from TA about their designations.
Uh so I can share some of it. Some of it
is confidential, but I can tell you that
10 of our schools were designated with
distinction, which is they went above
and beyond uh the metrics that TEA
establishes for designation. So very
very proud of them.
Uh and now I tried to change graphics
because uh I want to keep you
interested. So this time uh I'm grouping
all the early colleges first in
chronological order based on when the
school was open. So of course we always
start with Mission Early College. Our
first early college high school opened
in 2006. Uh we now have close to 1,500
graduates.
Uh Verda Early College High School uh
that opened the next year getting close
to a thousand awards. uh Northwest Early
College High School with Canot ISD.
Again, almost 775
uh um graduates. Um I can tell you that
these three early colleges uh were
designated with distinction. Very proud
of them. We also have Trans Mountain
Early College High School that opened in
2008. Uh Cotton Valley Early College
opened in 2010.
uh Clint Early College Academy that
opened in 2012 and you can see there how
many awards they have received since uh
they opened and uh Burgess Early College
High School at first school within a
school early college high school. Uh
please notice in the upper right hand
side we list the deans who are the
administrative leaons for these schools.
So a lot of the work uh goes to them and
and the praise goes to them for the
great work that um that the schools are
doing.
Uh then we have Sakura Early College uh
Rams Early College High School,
Trailblers Early College High School. Uh
and all of these schools um opened in
the same year 2016 actually no Sakoto
Early College 2015
uh Rams Early College 2016 and now the
ones that opened the same year were
Trailblazers
uh High School Early College Academy and
Parkland in 2017. Um and uh a couple
years later we had Falcon Early College
and Empire Early College opening. Notice
that all of these schools already have
graduates.
Uh we have uh several of these schools
that were designated with distinction as
well.
Um and then to close out the early
college high schools we have uh Pebble
Hills Early College uh open in 2019. The
next year Early College High School uh
following year and the same year we have
Hanks Early College High School and um
Sanis College High School who just had
graduated their first cohort this May.
And now moving on to the PEKs. Uh we
only have two PEKs that have had
graduating cohorts and have now gone
past the u uh provisional designation
and that is Clint uh high school um
early college uh PEK and the YSD uh PEK
and proud to say they're both designated
with distinction.
Uh we also have Fman's PEK uh Coronado
High School PEK. Um and and these
already have graduates. Um we have El
Paso High School PEK with EPISD,
Franklin High School PEK and Horizon
High School PEK cyber security. Uh
if I may share um students from Horizon
PEK which is a cyber security PEK have
also worked under our um STS program
student uh technology services program
uh with some internships during the
summer last summer and this summer as
well.
Then we have uh the different uh so so
alto together episd has nine pekks right
and uh again uh we have Jefferson PEK uh
then with Clint we have mountain view
PEK and we have Andress Austin Buouie
Chapen and Irvin Vvin PES. uh these
schools uh will have uh their graduates
in the coming years. They're still uh
and provisional.
Um we have now additional PEKs that we
have opened some of them with SISD. Um
again we have um Synergy PEK uh Canio
High School PEK. We have Empire, Falcon,
Spartan, Blazer and Bulldog PEX all with
SISD uh that have opened uh that opened
last year.
Um I would like to close just again
thanking the many departments uh the
many teams that work together to make
sure that these students uh you know are
admitted are tested get registered. Uh
we have an instructional committee that
works in different aspects of dual
credit that's made up of faculty and
staff. Uh we have of course our dual
credit um and early college high school
counselors and advisors and we're very
glad that that particular team has grown
in recent years uh to give better
service to our high school students. Uh
we have numerous dual credit
instructional coordinators throughout
the five campuses. Um, we have of course
our office of institutional
accredititation to make sure that the
college as a whole maintains
accreditation with all of these
off-campus sites and of course the many
counselors and librarians at EPCC that
assist.
If you have any questions, I'd be happy
to answer them. No question. I just want
to give you some kudos um uh for being
an incredible leader of the program. I
know firsthand that you're always
available or you make yourself available
to all these campuses that need any sort
of support or or assistance. So, um I
want to thank you for your leadership
and to um all the dual credit team.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you, Miss Moy.
>> Great job. All right. Thank you very
much.
Section 1.9, Board of Trustees Business.
Items 1.9.1 and 1.9.3 will be discussed
after executive session. Item 1.9.2
discussion and action regarding a
potential initiative to create a
veterans museum in the El Paso
community.
>> Mr. Chair,
>> go ahead. Um, so I wanted to share with
you as me many of you know that the El
Paso area is recognized as the veterans
capital of the USA and that's throughout
the county and we claim to celebrate
veterans every day
in in this community. We are proud of
the rich military history of our local
heroes. So in our unyielding commitment
to veterans who serve in all branches of
the military in time of war and peace, a
group of us mostly they are veterans and
a lot of them are veterans from the
Vietnam era. Uh we are on a mission to
establish a local shrine to honor the
veterans memories and the sacrifices
that they made throughout along the
along with their families throughout the
wars that they have uh served under.
So it is our vision to find a building
that uh we would be able to showcase and
share information to preserve and
promote the heritage of their their
military accomplishments.
Um, we anticipate that their stories
will have uh multiple angles of impact
that will touch audiences young and old
and at the same time contribute to the
historical knowledge of El Paso County
and highlight the contributions of those
who served.
So with that in this effort we are
planning to secure resources
and um to try and find a place. We don't
quite have that figured out where, but
we are looking at possibly
um having a one of those modular
buildings and we are thinking of
possibly looking at EPCC if it could be
possible over there on in your area next
to the monuments that we already have
there for our military. So this is a
consideration and we are uh exploring
that possibility. So I just wanted to
share with you that information. So
hopefully it's going to become a reality
um and a reality soon because we are
losing a lot of our u our uh especially
our Vietnam heroes that uh they're
getting a little bit up in age.
>> Yep.
Um, chair,
as a veteran, I I fully endorse that.
What I would like to see, including in
the planning,
I I noticed this last week that if you
drive downtown next to the county
courthouse across the street, there's a
plaque that honors all those people, all
those
veterans that died in in Vietnam. I know
that we have other monuments around
here. I I would like to see or I would
suggest
uh that we include in this operation a
recognition of those other monuments and
recognitions of those soldiers.
Before that we we have another one that
there's honors the Buffalo Buffalo
soldiers out as you enter Fort Bliss.
But when we do this let let's recognize
all the veterans. Okay. And so, but it's
an outstanding monument across from the
county courthouse and I I wish I knew
one some of the others, but but I'd ask
that you include all a name of all the
veterans, please.
>> I have been surprised at the names that
have come up from some of the committee
members that are doing the research. Um,
and it's very interesting. And we have,
you know, Medal of Honor uh recipients
and some of the people that some of us
didn't even know that
>> and the contribution
>> specifically I think was honored then as
you mentioned that Sergeant Ray Benites
>> Ray Benovitz. Yes.
>> Well, I don't know how many of you have
visited the site, but right now they're
just finishing up the Persian Golf. All
the veterans that serve in Persian Golf
memorial. Uh the site is mostly all done
by donations from veteran associations
all across the country and I don't think
the college has ever turned down a
request but uh I'm sure as long as they
come with a
plans that fit our
I just don't think we need to put any
funds from the college. Most of the
veterans uh put bring up most of the
money through raffles and I know there's
a few bricks out there with Hagert's
names on them that we've paid several
hundred for. So I know there's
>> all kinds of things that they do for
raising funds.
>> As a as a veteran, I think that's the
best idea. I I personally would not want
an organizational support. I wouldn't
want to see this individual dedication
to the recognition.
>> Yeah. So, I don't think there's a
problem with we have there's a lot of
room still out there at the site. I
don't know how many people have visited
it. I recommend that you do. It's
beautiful. That big old flag right up
against the mountain right now,
especially when the mountain is so green
after all this rain. But, uh I don't
think we have a problem. Dr. very much.
>> And one of the things that we're
exploring is um there's a a group that
um you apply for and they donate the
building, but we would have to do the
foundation and then they would donate
the building. So, we're exploring that
possibility or if anybody in the
audience has a building that you'd like
to donate for this effort and we'd be
more than happy to to take it.
Um, I just think that it's, you know,
the idea of having the having it right
next to that the other monuments would
be u, you know, would be great.
>> Dr. Grammar, is this just the purpose of
a memorial, a museum intended for a
meeting space?
>> No, it's not really for a meeting uh
space. It's more like to showcase the
different um heroes that were from this
community that serve from this community
and have a lot of pictures of a lot of
the servicemen and women and then a QR
code so that we the vision is that we
would even create it to where um they
could take students during field trips
and teach them about the different wars
like have several rooms and each room
represents uh one of the one of the
different wars that they fought and um
and also some of the stories and
artifacts. We also learned last night at
a meeting that um apparently they're
going to be closing down the the museum
um in Fort Bliss. So, you know, but
these veterans are really interesting.
They don't really want the the the
museum or the inside for bliss. they
want it outside. They think it's too
encumbersome to try and go in there. So,
there's a lot of very interesting
discussions going on on this, but it's
picking it's um you know, the momentum
is is really there now. So, we're going
to continue to pursue it. And if you
know anybody that's willing to donate a
few million dollars, we'll take them,
too.
>> Yeah. And if everybody remember back in
the early 70s, uh, the El Paso Community
College practically was all for the GIS
coming back from Vietnam. The GI Bill
paid all their tuition. So, we have a
strong relationship with the military.
And if you remember, I I don't know, Mr.
Smith, you might have been No, you
didn't come till 1980.
>> Mr. Flores.
>> Who's the oldest one?
>> Not oldest. Oh,
remember that we uh we had our first
classes out at Fort Bliss at the old
training site. They they leased it to us
for a dollar a year. So, EPCC started
uh basically because we had a lot of
veterans coming back from Vietnam.
>> Logan Heights.
>> Some of us went to Logan Heights.
>> Well, I didn't want to date ourselves,
Dr.
>> Well, because you were busy fighting
fires.
>> Yeah. how is this, but uh we have a
strong relationship with the veterans
and I I think it's a great idea. So,
thanks for bringing that.
>> So, I will give you a more formal report
once we get um because we had to create
a board and we're looking to, you know,
create a 501c3,
formalize the name of it because we
couldn't agree on the name last night.
We had several names, but I think each
one of us said a different name, so we
never agreed on one, but we will. Takes
a little while to get them all on the
same page.
>> So, Dr. Graham, the item on the agenda
says discussion action regarding a
potential initiative. Um, would the
action be just that we would process the
discussion? I mean, I mean, continue the
the discussion further. continue the
discussion further just because um at
this time it was just presenting the
idea of the possibility of having it um
in some of the uh EPCC facility which
would be out in the the existing
monument area in flex across America. Uh
so if the board is in agreement, we will
um and again seriously if somebody was
to offer a building or something cuz um
the commissioner had mentioned to me a
long time ago that yes that the county
had buildings but then when I pinned him
down I I didn't quite get one. So but if
if we can come up with a building that
would be ideal. If not at least we would
have that as a backup plan.
>> Any other discussion?
So at the moment we would have no action
then until we bring it up later. Is that
okay?
>> I think the action would just be that
the uh board would endorse the idea of
uh us working towards that together
>> with no cost to the college of course
>> if we're going to endorse I would
propose the next time we discuss that we
would have an overriding principle.
Um,
personally, uh, if you go to various
monuments, I think to say, well, we're
going to have this, we're going to do
that. You know, you split the focus. And
if this is the veterans and
comes to mind, the Vietnam War monument
in Washington DC and the visiting
monuments
and and there it's it's an individual
personal thing. uh and I you know the
having a meeting hall is an interesting
idea but I think I think that you start
dividing your focus if you don't I think
the focus of the memorial is to
recognize the individual and and
collected family sacrifices and we
really don't need need to have a place
where we can have a meeting for
something else because they have an
available room. I think it's the
solenity of of the Vietnam wall should
be the primary focus recognition of
sacrifice
>> and that wall is already there. many of
us visited frequently.
>> Yeah. The wall that they have there at
uh in the northeast is the wall just
like in in Washington DC, but it has all
the names of the of the men and women
that uh died from the El Paso County
area and there all their names are on
that that wall when you go visit.
It really is a neat site. If you haven't
been there, you need to go.
>> And I think it's on Thursday when they
have the food trucks and It's uh you
know and it's it's a good time to go and
eat your dinner there and visit the
monuments because they the the women
veterans are also very active nowadays.
They're they're coming up with all kinds
of uh plans
um for that area as well. The only thing
I complain about is that that it doesn't
really have like uh and I wish we had
some kind of recognition that that is
facility of the El Paso Community
College. It doesn't say that anywhere
and we should have some kind of big sign
that says, you know, um that thanks to
the El Paso Community College, all of
those monuments are there.
>> Dr. S.
>> Yes, sir. was any money left in the the
signage fund for building all these
buildings we've got around here?
>> Um I have not looked at that account in
quite some time. Um if there is not we
could um transfer resources to um
accommodate that and I'm sure that we
can look at
>> suspended. Well, I I'm sure we could
look at signage that indicates that this
is um as a result of the college's um
donation of of resources or donation of
land that we have the flags across
America
>> because it really shows that the college
is, you know, very supportive of our
military community and
the people that go there don't realize
that that is part of our part of the
college. uh when we have events
sometimes I ask for the microphone and I
remind them but it shouldn't have to be
>> you may not you may not hear see it hear
much but I I guarantee you the veterans
know
we may not talk about it but we know
>> any other discussion
>> all right go ahead
>> do we take no action
No action.
>> No action.
>> No action. J.
>> Thank you. Section 1.10, board reports.
Item 1.10.1, treasures report. This
includes June 30, 2025, financial
statements. No action is required. Item
1.10.2, president's report. Item
11.10.2.1,
Dr. William Sarata, college president,
will update the board of trustees and
audience on recent events that have
transpired at El Paso Community College.
Good afternoon, Chair Hagerty, members
of the board. Um, I'm going to begin
with Lorettto Justice Fellowship
National Program. It will be awarding
four EPCC social work students
identified by discipline faculty with
fellowship, scholarships, and paid
internships for the fall 2025 semester.
The students must be enrolled in a
social work internship course at EPCC
and be placed at an approved social
service agency. The Lorettto Justice
Fellowship may increase to 10 students
in the 2627 academic year. Thank you to
our faculty, Mr. Chris uh Mr. Christian
Salas and Mr. Arura Costa who were
instrumental in establishing this great
partnership benefiting our students.
EPCC has been recognized as a key
connector in the Border Plex 2030 bridge
strategic plan. The bridge plan is the
region's strategic road m roadmap for
long-term economic growth and global
competitiveness. Developed by the
borderplex alliance through a datadriven
stakeholder-led process, the plan
outlines a unified vision to strengthen
the regional economy, support
innovation, and adapt to changing policy
and market dynamics. Special thanks to
Dr. Christian Cervine who was one of the
21 members of the strategic plan task
force that shaped the 2030 bridge plan.
The report highlights EPCC as a key
contributor recognizing its designation
as a national center of academic
excellence in cyber security and
featuring the hack the border project as
a regional connector. We're proud to
share that the You Are a Good Man,
Charlie Brown production was a
tremendous success, drawing nearly 400
community members and showcasing the
incredible talents of our local faculty,
staff, and students. The production
brought together music faculty and
emerging theater students in both acting
and technical roles, highlighting the
collaborative spirit of our performing
arts program. Special thanks to Mr. Ted
Carver, theater district-wide
coordinator, for his outstanding
leadership in directing the production
and coordinating the many moving parts
that made the show possible. His
dedication and vision helped create a
memorable experience for performance and
audience audience members alike.
Congratulations to everyone involved on
a fantastic production. The EPCC UTEP
Transportation Research Immersion
Program, our trip camp, took place at
UTEP this summer from June 23rd through
the 27th. During the week-long camp,
EPCC and early college high school
students participated in presentation
presentations and daily hands-on
activities provided by UTEP engineering
faculty. Students were introduced to
transportation materials and design
followed by a tour of the UTEP Center
for Transportation Infrastructure
Systems research labs. Attendees
observed various roadway material tests
and concluded with students analyzing
data from the testing samples. In
addition, students explored the role of
technologies such as artificial
intelligence, virtual reality, and
machine learning as a catalyst for
innovation in construction. Student
teams were able to race the to race the
electric vehicle models against one
another. Students also participated in a
field trip to Tex DOT's headquarters.
The field trip ended with a presentation
about career and internship
opportunities at Tex Dot. The trip camp
concluded the week with a UTEP
networking cookout between TRIP
students, UTP faculty, and graduate
students. The trip camp is supported by
a Department of Transportation grant in
collaboration with the Southern Plains
Transportation Center, Oklahoma
University, UTP, and El Paso Community
College. Special thanks go out to Miss
Ivet Chukam, math professor at EPCC, Dr.
Joanne Moyer, engineering professor at
UTEP, for organizing and coordinating
the camp. I'm pleased to report the
successful completion of Dueling Chefs,
a signature fundraising event presented
by the Culinary Arts Department in
collaboration with the EPCC Foundation.
The event was held on Thursday, July
24th at 1309 and featured a friendly and
spirited culinary competition between
campus deans chef Daniel Gera uh and
Chef Rick Webb. Guests were treated to a
three course dinner prepared and
presented by the two chefs, each showca
showcasing their distinctive culinary
styles and creativity. The evening also
included a well- attended social hour,
kitchen tours, culinary tastings led by
students, and live music, creating a
vibrant and engaging atmosphere. This
year's event held special significance
as it marked the final public
appearance. I would hope that there's
more public appearances of Dean Rick
Webb before his retirement. Dean Webb
has been a cornerstone of El Paso
Community College's culinary arts
program since 2000, having served as as
both a chef and campus dean. He was
joined in the kitchen by Dean Daniel
Gerra, who began his journey at EPCC as
a culinary arts student in 2001 under
Web's mentorship, later becoming an
instructor and eventually department
chair before his current role as dean.
The collaboration between the two deans
was particularly me meaningful,
reflecting over two decades of shared
professional history and mutual respect.
Eight culinary arts students played an
integral role in the event, assisting
with the preparation of the featured
dishes, which included short ribs
presented in both barbecue and cherry
bourbon braise styles. The event was a
great turnout, and all proceeds from
ticket sales were directed to support
student scholarship within the EPCC
culinary arts department. The EPCC
Foundation coordinated ticketing and
event logistics, ensuring a seamless
experience for guests and maximizing the
fundraising impact. It was a great
event. Thank you chefs and slashdeans
for your for the unique experience. Many
thanks to our board who was able to
attend as well. In partnership with the
El Pasoans fighting hunger, the the
college successfully hosted a grocery
pickup event on Wednesday, July 23rd at
the Mission El Paso campus. The event
provided free groceries to students,
faculty, staff, and local community
members, continuing EPCC's commitment to
addressing food insecurity, and
supporting the well-being of the region
we serve. Thank you. EPCC campus life
and student leadership volunteers
um under the direction of Dr. Amaya, our
VP for student enrollment services and
the US Army's El Paso and Fort Bliss
Zerugosa recruiting station for their
dedicated efforts. Their collaborative
spirit ensures ensured smooth operations
and a welcoming environment for all
attendees. El Paso's fighting hunger
supplied enough food to serve about 150
to 200 individuals. The distribution
included a wide range of items such as
canned goods, fresh vegetables, fresh
fruits, chips, garbanzo beans, and for
the first time, baby formula in response
to the growing demand among families
with infants. The event marked the
second partnership between EPCC and El
Paso fighting hunger.
Following the initial event held in July
of 2024 at the VA campus, the grocery
pickup is series is a part of a broader
EPCC initiative to com to combat food
insecurity with plans for each campus to
host at least one food distribution
event per quarter. We remain deeply
committed to meeting both the academic
and basic needs of our students while
fostering strong partnerships with
community organizations to create
lasting regional impact. Congratulations
to the class of 2025. The 100th
graduation ceremony of the EPCC Law
Enforcement Training Academy was held on
Monday, July 14th at the EPCC
auditorium. This event marks a
significant milestone in the academyy's
longstanding history of training peace
officers who serve and protect our
community. The 2025 graduating class
consisting of 17 dedicated individuals
adopted the motto service first,
integrity always. As a part of this
special celebration, Garrett Hiller
earned valadictorian honors for academic
excellence. Additionally, Adrien Diaz
was recognized with the proficiency
award. Ruben Flores received the law
enforcement o Arts award and Isaac
Rodriguez was honored with the physical
fitness award for his outstanding
performance in this demanding program.
Uh the Lita program continues to offer a
rigorous six-month training curriculum
totaling 736 contact hours. This
training covers a comprehensive
collection of over 42 independent topic
areas, including defense tactics,
firearms, and active shooter response. I
would like to thank the instructors,
program coordinators, and staff for
being instrumental in our students
success. Congratulations to our
graduates, Barry Bogle and his team.
Chair Hagerty, that concludes my report.
I'm happy to respond to any questions
that the board may have.
>> Any question?
Thank you, Dr. Chair.
>> Item 1.11, consent docket. There is
none. Section two, administration. Item
2.1, BCA, BCB, BCE, CG, CGF, CHA, D I A
B, E, E, ECC, FF, DB, FBC, TASBY local
policies for second reading and
approval. Move to approve.
>> Second.
Any
>> discussion? Any discussion?
>> Number one, Dr. Srada, can or or Mr.
>> Can we implement a policy of saying
those letters as identified in the
minutes rather than having her to go
through all that? Number one, I I
actually make that question.
>> I just deferred to Mr. Rogan. He said no
problem.
>> Okay. And and second of all, I don't
know how many times we we've been
through this, but what we're doing is
looking at an individual. I wonder if
Dr. Pinley can give us the 30,000 foot
view of where we are. I mean, if you
look at the policy manual, it's this
big. And each one of those is a letter.
So, you know, where are we? You know,
like a 30,000 foot view of where we are
in policies. And by the way, just a real
rough estimate of how much asset that is
your time is spent on this.
>> Dr. Penley, please.
>> Thank you, Mr. Exer. Um,
in terms of the uh the short answer is
where are we with policies um pending
the approval of this action item? We are
uh caught up with TASBY updates for the
time being. Uh, one of the advantages of
the board's decision to convert our
policies to to the TASBY system is we
can be confident that we're now
compliant with uh state and federal law
and other statutes. Um, which I'm I
personally could not have said in in the
past. Um, and and you all remember that
this was a bit of a heavy load. It took
about 18 months for you all to go
through that conversion process looking
at your policies. Who went through it?
>> Uh, well, you you all approved the the
local policies.
>> I I just want to emphasize that you were
the one that did it.
>> Well, it it was it was a cabinet. Uh we
we went through each policy and and made
the recommendation where it would fit.
Should it be deleted? Should it be uh
kept uh in its current form? It it was
uh it was a labor intensive 18 months or
so, but but we did it. So, at this
point, we're in maintenance mode. Um,
and most of our policies uh are not
undergoing regular maintenance uh until
we have a legislative session. So, I
anticipate having a bit of a of a pause
in policy updates until uh November,
December when TASBY will be providing
updates to many of these that came out
of the legislative session. Um to your
point in terms of of the size or or the
effort, you're absolutely right. We have
a whole shelf uh in our bookcases in my
area devoted to the hard copies which
were required to maintain. Dr. Sarata
has a copy of all of the policies in his
office. Um,
and in terms of your final question
about resources, um, if I
>> I was essentially what we're doing is
that we paid you a bunch of money to sit
there and read this stuff and and then
coordinate with the rest of however you
do it, but it's 18 months, a significant
amount of time, I guess, is what you
want to say
>> for for the initial uh, conversion. And
at this point, um, if I had to put a a
stopwatch on it, I would say each policy
probably takes an hour and a half to two
hours, um, from start to finish.
>> Then then a real rough estimate of how
many policies do we have if
>> uh, we have
I would guess we have close to 200 right
now between the legal and the local.
I ju I I just think we just we look at
it individually and I think we need I
just want to step back and say hey
there's a bunch of stuff
and it's changing all the time so
where are we and I'm good thank you
>> Dr. Penny, you've done a wonderful job
with a transition along with a team
because it it took a lot to move away
from the oldfashioned style of policy
creation and archiving
to what we have now. It's it's good.
We're up to date
>> and Dr. Graham is very happy.
>> Yes.
And then every legislative session will
give us some new ones. So we'll we'll
keep you busy.
>> Do we have a a presidential policy that
we have to get rid of two policies for
every one we do when we
>> do have one policy that that we will be
presenting uh my hope is that we will be
presenting to you and then that will be
the final policy in the conversion. But
the policies are yours to do with. Your
local policies are yours to do with as
you see fit.
>> We had a second. Uh call a question.
>> Mr. Uxer
>> I.
>> Mrs. Robas.
>> Miss Nahara.
>> I.
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Mrs. Moy.
>> I.
>> Mr. Mendes.
>> Hi.
>> Mr. Hagerty.
>> I.
>> Section three personnel. Item 3.1
information items. Institutionally,
externally funded full-time staff and
faculty appointments, extensions,
resignations, and retirements. No action
is required. Item 3.2, tenure track
faculty appointments and new tenur
faculty.
>> Move to approve.
Do
>> I have a second?
>> Second.
>> Any discussion?
Call the question.
>> Mr. Uxer.
>> I.
>> Mrs. Robas.
>> Miss Naha.
>> Hi.
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Mrs. Moy. Hi,
>> Mr. Mendes.
>> Hi,
>> Mr. Hagerty. Hi.
>> I see no action required.
You're looking at
item 3.1 is no action required. Correct.
Section four, financial services. Item
4.1, discussion and action on the
approval of a one-year district-wide
support agreement with Oracle America,
Inc. in an amount not to exceed $97,795.
>> Move to approve 4.1 and 4.4.
>> Yes.
>> Second
item 4.4 discussion and action on on a
one-year software maintenance support
contract with Illusian Higher Education
for the Banner Enterprise Resource
Planning ERP system in an amount not to
exceed $342,68.
Any discussion?
>> Yes.
Uh I I'd know that I see Oracle and I
see Banner and I I know that they are
related, but I mean we got a million two
between two contracts and how do these
guys need each other? I mean can you can
you tell us how do they mesh and why do
we need both of them?
>> Yes sir. Thank you for that question.
That's a great question. Um so the short
answer is that Banner depends on the
Oracle database platform and while
Banner is the college's ERP system that
handles student records uh HR finance um
the data lives in the Oracle uh database
and it it depends on Oracle and um they
they work together obviously they need
each other they work together
technically but they're two separate
companies. companies and they require
separate licensing and support.
>> Okay. Is there any other organization
that actually covers both areas, both
functions or are we really working uh is
the industry such that they're they're
segmented like that?
>> Unfortunately, we have to buy them
separately. So, we have to uh purchase
the licensing from Banner uh for the ERP
system and then from Oracle for the
licenses of the database. And also I
would like to take the opportunity to
highlight also that in this agreement
uh we're um taking advantage of removing
a
module that is no longer needed. Excuse
me. Uh it's a web web logic module that
is no longer needed and also reducing
the number of licenses that we have been
using. So we're making changes to the
agreement and this in the period of
three years we will potentially see a
savings. So, uh, close to $800,000.
>> Any other questions?
>> Call the question.
>> Mr. Uxer.
>> Hi.
>> Mrs. Robless.
>> Hi,
>> Miss Nahara.
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Hi.
>> Mrs. Moy.
>> Mr. Mendes.
>> Hi,
>> Mr. Hagerty.
>> Hi.
>> Item 4.2, Two, discussion and action on
the approval of a three-year contract
with Dell Marketing LP for the purchase
of desktop computers, computer monitors,
and laptops for district-wide use in an
amount not to exceed $750,000
annually.
>> Move to approve 4.2 and 4.9.
>> Have some questions.
Second
>> item 4.9 discussion and action on the
approval to purchase from Dell Marketing
LP a storage area network sum in an
amount not to exceed $126,661.
>> Any questions? Mrs.
>> Yes, I have some questions on 4.2.
In the agenda, we um are saying we are
estimating a significant number of
desktop computers. What is that
significant number?
Thank you for your question. That's
that's a really good question. And the
the amount that we base it on is on
previous purchases that have been done
throughout the throughout the fiscal
year. And this uh abstract uh that is in
front of you for your approval is so
that departments can buy uh computers
when they're whenever they're needed.
This is not that
for us that we're buying all the
computers right now. just a vehicle for
them to use this approval to be able to
purchase computers. In the past years,
we um we average uh in terms of
computers purchases. It varies because
sometimes we've done projects like last
year we uh replaced over 2,000 desktop
computers uh for the uh IT computer labs
and other labs across the district. But
for these that are just purchased by the
departments, it just varies every every
year and it also includes uh it allows
us to also buy the mobile the the
laptops as well.
>> Okay. Just the as as needed makes me a
little bit nervous. So do we have like a
re uh refresh plan or a phase out plan
or do you establish caps on each
department of how much they are going to
spend? That's a great and excellent
question and I'm glad um that you asked
that as well because we do have a a
mechanism to address some of the
concerns that you have. Uh one of one of
which is um that we uh refurbished
computers, those that have been uh
replaced by a new computer, we we take
those other ones and we refurbish them.
And whenever anyone creates a work
request to work on their computers, one
of the things that we do is we assess
the computer for their their performance
uh and the condition that it's in. And
if it's um if if it if it's recommended
to be replaced, we also offer that
refurbished computer so that we they can
have some savings and not uh do unneeded
spending, right? because all of these um
actually are the responsibility of every
department budget head uh to assess and
evaluate the need but they're also um
welcome to create a a request for us to
go and assess their computers to see if
there's a need for it. On top of that,
we also have
another mechanism which is an approval
process that we in coordination with the
purchasing department all technical um
or technology uh purchases uh required
it approval. So we review those requests
and um we only approve as as needed not
as once. And on top of that we also I
implemented a standardization of
desktops and laptops so that it can help
us with uh bulk pricing uh uh savings as
well as u streamlining support and and
responding quicker.
>> And that was my last question. So thank
you.
So do I do I understand that as a
computer tech if I'm sitting there at
the desk and all of a sudden I see in
the local IT magazine that the Louis
latest whippy dippy is out there and
mine happens to be about a year old. I
mean it's functional. It's good. But I
really like the new stuff. Okay. Your
procedure prevents me from should
prevent me from then saying well this
computer is no good. I need a new one
right now.
So the the process that we have in place
of standardizing computers will will
prohibit you from just customizing a
computer with the latest and greatest.
Right. So
>> but that's not what I wanted.
>> But that's what we that's what we
approve and that's why we have that
process. So we meet with the with the um
end user and we evaluate the needs that
they have for their um roles. So for so
we have a different levels of
specifications for their computers. So
depending on the role uh we specify a
different computer. For instance, if
they're doing engineering um
architecture or uh digital media, then
we have a different computer
specification and packet that we offer
to them
>> and and organizationally if I understand
the or the organizational leadership,
the department chair has skin in the
game as to how often you replace what
you have to replace. So currently that's
what we have and it is uh the the
responsibility of the department budget
head to evaluate that. Um so we don't
have all of the purchases uh centralized
through it but as I mentioned earlier
all those other uh mechanisms helps us
in uh ensuring that we we don't
overspend.
>> And one last question then on 4.9 how
does the storage area network fit into
all this?
So the storage error network is um it's
our storage that we have in our uh data
center that is used for storage for
different systems. So uh we have um
applications that all the um the storage
that data resides in there. So it's
centralized so that we can uh then
expand it's modular um and we can um
provision systems quicker as well
because we we also have our our virtual
servers um and that are connected to our
storage era network so that we can
provide and that it helps us with
reliability as well so that we can um
>> so the contracts are for both of them
are for Dell marketing and so they know
that they're on the line for both of
them so we use that as an opportunity to
get them to negotiate.
>> And um I'm glad you brought that up too
because we do have a good relationship
with Dell and we're always um requesting
and and um
negotiating I guess that's the word I
was looking for. We're always
negotiating for discounts and in this
case we always take this opportunity as
well having that we given that we are
going to have two different uh purchases
with them uh they provide uh discounts
for us. Dr. Strada.
>> Sir,
>> one picky point if you don't mind. When
we're preparing the agenda, it' be neat
if we had items 4.1, 4.2, 4.3. Marco,
Marco, Marco, Marco, and then we go to
Mr. Fernandez who has I have a question
for when but you know rather than bounce
around area concern
>> understood.
>> Any other discussion?
>> All the questions.
>> Mr. Uxer
>> I
>> Mrs. Robless.
>> Hi,
>> Miss Nahara.
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Hi,
>> Mrs. Moy.
>> Mr. Mendes.
>> Hi,
>> Mr. Hagerty.
>> Hi.
>> Item 4.3, discussion and action on the
approval to award contracts to ODP
Business Solutions LLC and El Paso
Office Products LLC for the
district-wide purchase of Office
Products in an amount not to exceed
$650,000
estimated annual aggregate amount.
>> Move to approve. Second.
>> Any discussion?
>> Yes,
Mr. Flores. I presume out of all this
when I see the word
and you know 650 and the word aggregate
makes what kind of monitoring program I
mean if it's aggregate and we sort of
have it there you know
how do we monitor make sure that I mean
it doesn't it seems like it's not
specified so we can't track it. So how
do we know that you know that uh we have
good managerial financial control over
all of this if we're if an aggregate so
that the aggregate will say yes it's
been used wisely.
>> Good question Mr. Ruxer. We have
significant internal controls built into
our ERP system. So, our method of
budgeting uh line item budgeting for the
supplies pool in this particular example
will not allow a requisition to go
through if the funds are not available.
It'll uh it'll show a flag of
non-sufficient funds which will cause
the potential purchase to be questioned.
In addition to that, our uh method of
control for receiving uh goods and
services for whatever the category is,
but in particular uh we do not allow for
delivery of goods and services except
for to college premises.
So nobody can divert purchases to their
homes or another location.
uh in this particular example supplies
uh our our method of budgeting uh as a
good example for the instructional area
we have five campuses so there are
redundant budgets like we'll have
English department at a different
location which will uh allow for closer
scrutiny of budgets uh as opposed to
aggregating all the supplies into one
English budget we'll have a separate
English budget budget for different
programs. Uh we have about over 600
budgets which allow for closer scrutiny.
>> Okay. Just now if we if we deliver to
the different locations, how can we you
know once it comes to the campus then
how do we what control we have when it
brings in and you have 14 boxes of
paper, pencils and and toner and it goes
into some extra office there and then
anybody can you know from personal
experience
somebody I happen to know when they used
to work as an engineer actually
accumulated
bunches of extra pads of paper and other
items so that they become the central
warehouse for their particular work
location as opposed to the secretary
keeping it. I mean, what kind of control
do we have to make sure that everybody
doesn't have four or five extra copies
of whatever they have there?
>> Well, that that re is dependent on the
on the budget head. Um, the budget has
to exercise control for those resources
within the department. where where the
supplies go is very specific to the
vendor to deliver to a very specific
room and person. So appropriate use is a
managerial function.
>> Yes sir.
>> Interesting.
>> That's a big number to have spread out
everywhere.
It is
>> half a million dollars just
in my locker room, your locker room, 14
desks.
>> We have we have over 600 budgets,
separate budgets.
Okay.
>> Any other questions?
>> Other question,
>> Mr.
Be terrible if I started disagreeing
with all this stuff, wouldn't it? I
>> Mrs. Robless.
>> Hi,
>> Miss Naha.
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Hi,
>> Mrs. Moy.
>> Mr. Mendes.
>> Hi,
>> Mr. Hagerty.
>> Hi.
>> Item 4.5, discussion and action on the
approval of contract awards for catering
services for events districtwide in an
amount not to exceed $300,000
estimate aggregate amount.
>> Move to approve. Second.
>> Second.
>> Any discussion?
Call a question.
>> Mr. Uxer.
>> Hi.
>> Mrs. Robless.
>> Miss Naha.
>> I.
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Mrs. Moy.
>> Hi.
>> Mr. Mendes.
>> Mr. Hagerty.
>> Hi.
>> Item 4.6. Discussion and action on the
approval of a three-year support
services contract with Microsoft
Corporation for enterprise support
services in an amount not to exceed
$178,966.
>> Move to approve 4.6 six and 4.7.
>> Second
item 4.7 discussion and action on the
approval to award a three-year contract
to Kasoft Technology Corp. for a
web-based software platform for planning
and accreditation forms in an amount not
to exceed $168,266
for a three-year period.
>> Any discussion?
>> Yes. On 4.6 it's Microsoft which is
essentially a software function. And
then we see fire print 7 is a software.
Are there any coordination? Is there any
overlap? Is there any relationship
between these two or they just need to
be independent treated independently
separately? Won't you ask Dr. Pinley to
answer? I'm sorry.
>> I'll go ahead and and take this. Thank
you for your question. Uh Mr. Ruxer. So
they are two separate um applications.
So um the Microsoft that you see here,
the abstract is for requests of support.
It's not necessarily the licences
licenses those you approved last uh last
month last board meeting. Um this is
just for support so that we can get uh
proactive uh support from them as well
as um prioritize support and it just
helps us to maintain our systems um and
operational and it reduces also by
having the support it it augments our
staff and so it it allows us to have
whenever there's a an issue that needs
to be re repaired or or fixed uh for um
a faster response time to address that
issue.
>> So they're really not even comparable
type or operations
>> and no sir, they're two different
things. So
>> okay,
>> any discussion? Call a question.
>> Mr. Uxer,
>> I
>> Mrs. Robless.
>> Miss Maher.
>> Hi.
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Mrs. Moy,
>> I
>> Mr. Mendes.
>> Hi.
>> Mr. Heaggerty.
>> Item 4.8 8 discussion and action on the
approval to award a contract to American
Data Bank LLC, a DISA healthc care
company for drug screenings, motor
vehicle record, MVR checks, background
checks, and compliance logging services
in an amount not to exceed $150,000.
>> Move to approve 4.8 and 4.10.
>> Second.
>> Item 4.10, 10 discussion and action on
the approval of a three-year contract
with Century Link Communications LLC
doing business as Lumen Technologies
Group for Districtwide Enterprise
Telephone Line Services at each campus
in an amount not to exceed $283,949.
>> Any discussion?
>> Call.
>> Mr. Exter.
>> Hi.
>> Mrs. Robless.
>> Miss Nah.
>> Hi.
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Mrs. Moy.
>> Hi.
>> Mr. Mendes. Hi,
>> Mr. Hagerty.
>> I
>> section five, physical facilities.
Item 5.1, discussion and action on the
approval to award a contract to Medlock
Commercial Contractors LLC to construct
and install new elevators in buildings
A, B, and C at the VA campus in an
amount not to exceed 5,32,497.
>> Move to approve.
>> Second.
>> Any discussion?
>> Yes.
We talked about the elevators in in a
previous day and
I think one of the things that we wanted
to look at was what was the usage or the
need established and I think the
agreement was there but we really didn't
know if it was more of a a
medical compl what is the compliance
issue or if it was an actual issue what
where do we stand on the certification
and justification for those
>> so with regards uh I'll I'll begin and
I'll ask Mr. Footus to weigh in as well
with with regards Mr. Oxer to uh the
need the need is is absolutely there.
We've had unfortunately where um the
elevators are unfunctional. Um we've had
students as well as faculty and or staff
um that were not um did not have the
capacity to utilize the stairs. Um
whether it be an ADA issue, uh an
injury, what have you. And so um the
need is absolutely there with regards to
increasing the capacity and and
providing additional elevators in those
respective buildings. I'm pleased to say
that um initial estimates ran as high as
$8.5 million for for this renovation. Um
the elevators are that are in those
buildings are the original elevators. Um
they are um a system that is no longer
supported um by uh are no longer
utilized in in construction. So it's
very difficult to fix the current
elevators if and when they are out. Um,
these would allow us to have additional
elevators as uh support for those
respective buildings. Uh, again, pleased
to see that the that the bid that the
board will um go forward with for
Medlock Commercial Contractors came in
just over $5 million. Um, it is a
one-year uh 360day
uh construction time period, which we
anticipate will begin on the 1st of
September. Um, so we feel very
comfortable with the need, the
justification, and the move forward on
this. Um, a lot of kudos to Ruben
Gallardo and Mr. Flores on being able to
move this forward. Their teams um, we
first discussed the elevators um, a
couple of years ago. So, it is good to
be at this point where we're moving
forward with construction. U,, but these
buildings were built in the mid70s.
um these buildings uh these are the
original elevators that are in those
respective buildings. So no doubt on the
justification and need for them. Mr.
Flores, please add to anything that I
missed.
>> No, Dr. S. I thought that was quite a
complete answer. Uh in addition to that,
we find that we sometimes we need them
to move freight. And so this plan will
give us two elevators for building A, B,
and C each. So we'll be able to
segregate the freight part of moving
things to different levels. And also we
have had incidents where people have
been trapped in those elevators because
of age and um ability to maintain them.
So th this is a very important need in
in those buildings.
>> Any other discussion?
>> Other questions?
>> Mr. Her
>> I.
>> Mrs. Robiss.
>> Miss Nahara.
>> Hi.
>> Dr. Graham. I
>> Mrs. Moy
>> I
>> Mr. Mendes
>> Hi
>> Mr. Hagerty
>> I
>> item 5.2 discussion and action on the
approval of expenditures with various
vendors to purchase building materials
supplies and or services as needed
districtwide for fiscal year 2025 2026.
>> Move to approve.
>> Second.
>> Any discussion?
>> Just a quick question.
This is just sort of an anticipated
usage. It's already an existing planned
to budgetary item I guess is that and so
it's just it's now coming due that we
need the stuff supplies. Is that it?
>> It is.
>> Okay.
>> It it allows us Mr. drugs are um to have
these contracts in place in that if we
have an emergency on a one of our
respective campus or a need to move
forward with any um repair with any
contract that we're allowed to move that
forward as opposed to waiting till the
next board meeting as well to approve
the contract which then we'd have to do
the RFP at that point move forward wait
the period of time it it prevents the
college from delays and being able to
move forward Um between the last board
meeting and now we have dealt with water
issues at the Northwest campus. Uh we
have dealt with um a variety of issues
at each of our respective campuses. um
AC at at the Rio Grand campus and the
staff um in particular the folks in the
front have been dealing with those
respective issues and ensuring that the
college can continue its functionality,
continue to serve the students that
we're fortunate to have enrolled at the
institution without having to come to
the board meeting every single time.
Now, if it's an expenditure that is
beyond any of these, we still come back
to the board.
>> But we but we've already approved the
general the general budget for this.
This is just saying now it's time to
spend it.
>> This is approving this. Correct. This is
approving the budget that is in uh that
is in place for this coming fiscal year.
>> Okay.
>> Any other discussion? Call a question.
Bill.
>> Mr. Ruxer.
>> Hi.
>> Mrs. Robiss.
>> I.
>> Miss Maher.
>> Hi.
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Mrs. Moy.
>> Hi. Mr. Mendes.
>> Hi,
>> Mr. Hagerty.
>> Hi.
>> Section six, curriculum and instruction.
Item 6.1, discussion and action on the
approval of the restated and amended
Burgess Early College High School
interlocal agreement.
>> Move to approve
>> second.
>> Any discussion?
Other questions?
>> Mr. Ruxer.
>> I.
>> Mrs. Robas.
>> Miss Maha.
>> Hi.
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Mrs. Moy.
>> Hi.
>> Mr. Mendes. Hi,
>> Mr. Hagerty.
>> I
>> item 6.2, discussion and action on the
approval of an amend um amendment to the
court cooperation contract agreement
from the Texas Higher Education
Coordinating Board in the amount of
$33,390.
>> Move to approve.
>> Second.
>> Any discussion?
>> Yes. This I understand is Mr. Smith
President Smith. Uh,
excuse me, Dr. Smith. The um there's an
original contract at 300,000 and this is
30. This is just to, if I can read it
correctly, it's called the opportunity
high school diploma program. How many
What's the student rate? What's the
participation rate? I mean, what do we
expect or want or to have? I mean, so
we're going to spend $33,000, but is
anybody participating in this or
>> Yeah. So for a little context, um last
year we were awarded a planning grant
>> uh in in the neighborhood of $100,000.
So faculty have been working along with
uh five total schools, four other
partners in the state to develop the
program uh the competencies for the
opportunity high school diploma program.
Uh this year they're developing the
curriculum. So there is no participation
at this point. We anticipate the first
cohort to come in in the spring.
>> And do you have a number?
>> Uh we're hoping to get a cohort of 20 to
25 to to start out.
>> Okay.
>> It's not a one zero two zero.
>> No, absolutely not. And we think there's
considerable growth potential in our
region. There there are a lot of
individuals that have for whatever
reason dropped out of high school are in
the workforce now but would benefit from
coming back completing their high school
diploma and earning a college degree or
certificate.
>> How does this differ from a GTE?
>> So the GED is yeah uh is one avenue for
someone to show completion of high
school. Um some folks don't have a GED
or a high school diploma. So the state
felt uh that an opportunity to get a
diploma might be better than a GED. We
also have GED programs at the
institution.
>> Okay.
>> And this is uh the state found another
uh pot of money. So they've divided up
that up amongst the five partners and
our share is 33,000 and we'll be using
that predominantly to uh market the
program. But this is this is focused on
getting a ticket puncher, if you will,
out and so that it helps people
get get further their personal career.
>> That's absolutely correct. Not only for
their high school diploma, but to earn a
college credential at the same time. Y
>> any other questions? Call a
questionable.
>> Mr. Uxer.
>> Hi.
>> Mrs. Robless.
>> Miss Naha.
>> Hi.
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Mrs. Moy.
>> Hi.
>> Mr. Mendes.
>> Mr. Mr. Hagerty.
>> Hi.
>> Section seven, student services. Item
7.1, discussion and action on the
approval of a contract with CW CDW
government for a mass notification
system in an amount not to exceed
$345,110
for three years.
>> Move to approve 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, and 7.4.
>> Second.
>> Item 7.2 Two, discussion and action on
the approval to contract with Best Buy
Business to purchase hardware and
furniture required for the National
Junior College Athletic Association,
NJCAA,
esports program in an amount not to
exceed $12,359.
Item 7.3, discussion and action on the
approval to purchase from Dell Marketing
LP computer equipment and furniture
required for the National Junior College
Athletic Association NJCAA esports
program in an amount not to exceed
$80,322.
Item 7.4, discussion and action on the
approval of continuing education tuition
rates for new courses.
Item 7.5, discussion and action on the
approval of continuing education tuition
rates for revised courses.
>> Any discussion?
>> Yes, I do. 7.1. Uh, Dr. Amaya,
discussion and approval of a contract
for a mass notific. What do we have now?
Don't we have a mass notification system
now?
>> Yes, sir. This is it. This is Theano
Alert, the system that we currently use.
It's just our re-uping the the contract
with this.
>> Oh, okay. Yeah, I guess I I misread
that. So, this is just an extension of
our current procedures. Oh, okay. Okay.
I didn't
>> Okay.
>> Any other discussions?
>> I'd just like to say it's about time for
the esports. I mean, I've only been
waiting for two years.
>> I I I'd like to say thank you to our
team for all the work they put into it
to get it up and running, Judge.
>> Yeah. I I would really like to thank you
also.
So, it's great. Okay. No other
discussion. Call a question.
>> Mr. Uxer.
>> Hi.
>> Mrs. Robless.
>> I.
>> Miss Nahara.
>> Hi.
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Mrs. Moy.
>> I.
>> Mr. Mendes.
>> Hi.
>> Mr. Hagerty.
>> I.
>> Section 8. Community services. There is
none. Would the board like to go into
executive session?
>> Item 1.3 executive and close session.
The board of trustees may conduct an
executive or close session pursuant to
chapter 551 of the Texas government code
for one or more of the following
reasons. One, consultation with its
attorney to seek or receive legal advice
or consultation regarding pending or
contemplated litigation or for any
purpose authorized by law. Two,
discussion about the value or transfer
of real property. Three, discussion
about a prospective gift or donation.
Four, consideration of specific
personnel matters. Five, discussion
about secure security personnel or
devices. Or six, discussion of certain
economic development matters. The board
may also announce that it will go into
executive session on any item listed on
this agenda if the subject matter is
permitted for a close session by
provisions of chapter 551 of the Texas
government code. Any vote regarding
these items shall be taken in open
session. Item 1.3.1. Discussion with
legal council regarding negotiation of
ground lease agreement with Cano ISD
regarding EPCC Northwest campus pursuant
to section 551.072
of the Texas government code. Item 1.3.2
Two, discussion with legal counsel
regarding EEOC charge filed by Michael
Adam Mason EOC charge number
453202500659
pursuant to section 551.074
of the Texas Government Code. Item 1.3.3
discussion with legal counsel regarding
recent amendments in the Texas Education
Code to reflect compliance with the
requirements of Texas Senate Bill 37
80th 888 legislative RS including
statutory sections governing the
establishment and function of faculty
councils or senates Texas Education Code
51.3522
51.3523
51.3541
51.913 3 51.9431
pursu pursuant to section 554.071
of the Texas government code. The time
is now 608 and the board is in executive
session.
Okay. The board is now back out of
executive session. Uh, Belle, can you uh
>> read 1.9.1,
please?
>> Yes, sir.
>> Item 1.9.1, discussion and action to
approve the ground lease agreement with
Gano Theo ISD regarding EPCC Northwest
Campus.
>> Move to approve.
>> Second.
>> Any discussion?
>> All the questions.
>> Mr. Uxer.
>> I.
>> Mrs. Robless.
>> Miss Nah.
>> I.
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Mrs. M.
>> I. Mr. Mendes.
>> Hi,
>> Mr. Hagerty.
>> I
1.9.3.
There there will be no action taken.
>> And the next board meeting is going to
be
right here in this room on the 27th of
August. And we have a special workshop
on August the 6 at 2 PM
27. And we are ajourned.
>> Thank you all very much.
>> Very good.